New getting started guide (#3704)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/docs/get-started/start-here/step-7.mdx

---
title: "Step 7 - Testing"
description: Learn how to use FusionAuth in a local tests and a CI/CD system.
section: get started
subcategory: start here
navOrder: 0
codeRoot: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fusionauth/fusionauth-example-get-started/main
---

<div className="border border-green-700 px-3 rounded-md">
  <i className="fa-duotone fa-stopwatch fa-2x mr-2 text-green-700 align-middle"/> Estimated time to complete this step: **5 minutes**
</div>

## Local testing

> Testing is a critical component of all software development. FusionAuth make testing simple and awesome. Rather than having to create new accounts or wait hours for testing accounts to be reset, you can instead run FusionAuth locally, test against it, and then reset it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing is a critical component of all software development. FusionAuth makes testing simple and awesome. Rather than having to create new accounts or wait hours for testing accounts to be reset as you would have to do with a cloud-only auth provider, you can instead run FusionAuth locally, test against it, and then reset it.
```

> Testing is a critical component of all software development. FusionAuth makes testing simple and awesome. Rather than having to create new accounts or wait hours for testing accounts to be reset as you would have to do with a cloud-only auth provider, you can instead run FusionAuth locally, test against it, and then reset it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Testing is a critical component of all software development. FusionAuth makes testing simple and awesome. Rather than having to create new accounts or wait hours for testing accounts to be reset as you would have to do with a cloud-only auth provider, you can instead run FusionAuth locally, test against it, and reset it to a known state. 
```

docker compose up
```

The first command brings FusionAuth down and clears its database. The second command starts FusionAuth back up, which will again use [Kickstart](/docs/get-started/download-and-install/development/kickstart) to configure FusionAuth for our application.

If you are using a different installation method, no problem. You can simply stop FusionAuth, delete the database, and restart it. Usually this looks something like this:

```shell
bin/shutdown.sh
psql -U postgres -c 'drop database fusionauth;'
bin/startup.sh
```

You might need to tweak these commands for your platform and database.

## Testing in CI/CD

Beyond testing locally, most development teams leverage a CI/CD system to automate tests and deploy their software. There are a ton of different CI/CD systems, but let's review how our example app runs its own tests in the Github Actions CI system.

If you open the file `.github/workflows/main.yaml`, you'll see that this file is a Github action that performs a number of steps. The important steps in this file are the ones that start FusionAuth and run the tests. Here's the command that starts FusionAuth via Docker in Github Actions:

```yaml

> - name: Start FusionAuth

Reviewer 2: Please pull using RemoteCode.
